well-known/details.md, before:

# Asset Links Specification

## Overview

Asset Links is a protocol to securely capture statements made by digital assets
such as web sites or mobile apps about their relationship with other digital
assets.  Statements can reliably be attributed to the owners of the source
assets.

## Statement Model

A digital **asset** is an identifiable and addressable online entity that
typically provides some service or content.  Examples of assets are websites,
mobile apps, and social media pages.

**Ownership** of an asset is defined by being able to control it and speak for
it.

An asset owner may establish a **relationship** between the asset and another
asset by making a statement about an intended relationship between the two.  An
example of a relationship is permission delegation.  For example, the owner of a
website (the webmaster) may delegate the ability the handle URLs to a particular
mobile app.  Relationships are considered public information.

A particular kind of relationship (like permission delegation) defines a binary
relation on assets.  The relation is not symmetric or transitive, nor is it
antisymmetric or antitransitive.

A **statement** *S(r, a, b)* is an assertion that the relation *r* holds for the
ordered pair of assets *(a, b)*.

For example, taking *r =* "delegates permission to handle the site's URLs", *a
=* nytimes.com website, *b =* New York Times mobile app, *S(r, a, b)* would be
an assertion that "the nytimes.com website delegates its ability to handle URLs
to the New York Times mobile app".

A statement *S(r, a, b)* is considered **reliable** if we have confidence that
the statement is true; the exact criterion depends on the kind of statement,
since some kinds of statements may be true on their face whereas others may
require multiple parties to agree.

## Data Types

### AssetDescriptor

We name an asset using an **AssetDescriptor**, which is a JSON string. For the
initial version of the API, we support only two types of assets, web sites and
Android apps (in the future, others may be added but this does not affect the
model).

**Web site descriptors** are as follows:

```json
// if no port given, default port for scheme is assumed
{ "namespace": "web",
  "site": "http[s]://{fully-qualified domain}{:optional port}"
}
```

We only support describing an entire domain at once.  Note that only fully
qualified domain names are permitted in the URL.

**Android app descriptors** are as follows: 

```json
{ "namespace": "android_app", "package_name": "[Java package name]",
  "sha256_cert_fingerprints": ["[SHA256 fingerprint of signing cert]",
            "[additional allowed cert]", ...]
}
```

The `sha256_cert_fingerprints` field is a list of colon-separated hex strings.
Note that the list is syntactic sugar: since only one certificate is required to
identify an android app, an asset descriptor with two fingerprints is equivalent
to two asset descriptors with one fingerprint each.

Full example of an Android app descriptor:

```json
{ "namespace": "android_app", "package_name": "com.costingtons.app",
  "sha256_cert_fingerprints":
    ["14:6D:E9:83:C5:73:06:50:D8:EE:B9:95:2F:34:FC:64:16:"
     "A0:83:42:E6:1D:BE:A8:8A:04:96:B2:3F:CF:44:E5"]}
```

Notably, we do not refer to any particular version of the app: a phone-based
implementation may match the installed version, while a central service may use
the latest version in the Google Play store.

**iOS App asset descriptors** are as follows:

```json
{ "namespace": "ios_app", "appid": "585027354" }
```

### Relation

A **Relation** describes the nature of a statement, and consists of a kind and a
detail.  The set of kinds is enumerated by the API:

Kind | Description / Reliability determination
--- | ---
`delegate_permission` | The detail field specifies which permission to delegate. A statement involving this relation does not constitute a *requirement* to do the delegation, just a *permission* to do so.  How to determine reliability: A statement of this kind is reliable if it's made by the owner of the asset doing the delegating.

We anticipate adding other kinds in the future, but are being deliberately cautious in doing so.

The detail field is a lowercase alphanumeric string with underscores and periods
allowed (matching the regular expression `[a-z0-9_.]+`), but otherwise
unstructured. We define some common values to avoid unnecessary fragmentation of
the API:

Pre-defined kind / detail | Description
--- | ---
`delegate_permission/common.handle_all_urls` | Delegates the ability to handle all URLs that the source asset can handle.

If defining custom detail strings, we encourage the use of Java-style scoping, e.g, `com.google.app.detailstring`.

### Statement

A **Statement** asserts a relation between an ordered pair of assets. The asset
whose owner is making the statement is implicitly the first one (the "source")
in the relation; we may in the future allow the source asset to be specified
explicitly. The statement is a JSON string with the following structure:

```json
{
  "relation": ["{kind}/{detail}", ...],
  "target" : { AssetDescriptor }
}
```

Example statement being made by a website that it delegates the ability to
handle URLs to a particular app:

```json
{
  "relation": ["delegate_permission/common.handle_all_urls"],
  "target" : { "namespace": "android_app",
               "package_name": "com.mydomain.app",
               "sha256_cert_fingerprints": ["[cert hash]"] }
}
```

To allow for easier scaling and central management, we also allow statements
which point to another file containing a list of statements that should be
logically included:

```json
{
  "include": "https://[url of file to include, with FQDN]"
}
```

If the source asset's delivery mechanism is secure (e.g., HTTPS or signed
Android APKs), the include file must be served over SSL.  Include files are only
processed if the HTTP status code is 200; otherwise the content of that include
file is discarded.  Specifically, HTTP 30x redirects will not be followed.

In practice, we expect that direct statements will suffice for small numbers of
assets, but that include-files will be more common when dealing with hundreds of
assets whose relationships are better managed centrally.

### Statement List

A Statement List is a JSON array with any number of statements.

## Determining the Set of Reliable Statements

As defined above, *reliable* statements are those intentionally made by asset
owners.  For each asset type, we identify a location which we believe can only
be controlled by the asset's owner. We treat all statements in that location, as
well as all statements pulled in via the inclusion mechanism, as being made by
the asset owner. The validity period of each statement is generally determined
by the TTL of the underlying data, though a particular implementation may also
impose a lower and upper bound.

### Website:

**Granularity:** A website asset is characterized by (scheme, domain, and port).
All paths and query strings are assumed to be a part of the same website. Both
http and https schemes are supported.

**Statement list location:** For website `<scheme>://<domain>:<port>/`, we
consider the file at `<scheme>://<domain>:<port>/.well-known/assetlinks.json` to
contain a statement list in JSON format as defined above.  The file should be
served with the media type `application/json`.  Any response besides HTTP 200 is
treated as an error, and will result in an empty statements list.

### Android app:

**Granularity:** An Android app is characterized by (package name, signing cert).

**Statement list location:** Android app manifests are protected by the APK
signature whose signing key is by definition controlled by the owner of the app.

In `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<manifest>
  <application>
    ...
    <meta-data android:name="asset_statements" android:resource="@string/asset_statements" />
  </application>
</manifest>
```

In `res/values/strings.xml`:

```xml
<resources>
    ...
    <string name="asset_statements">
        {JSON array of statements}
    </string>
</resources>
```

### iOS app:

**Granularity:** An iOS app is identified by its App ID.  For example, the
Google Maps app has the App ID 585027354.

**Statement location:** As part of their signed bundle, iOS apps contain an
`Info.plist` file.  Asset Link statements are placed inside this file:

```json
<key>AssetLinkManifest</key>
<string>
  {JSON array of statements}
</string>
```

Commit message:

Add lookalike_urls/allowlist as a predefined entry
This CL adds the `lookalike_urls` relationship kind to the documentation. This is to allow site owners to list other sites they own so that browsers don't show security warnings because the URLs of the sites are similar looking.

For example, Chrome presently may show a "Did you mean example.com?" warning if the user visits "example1.com". If both sites are owned by the same owner, the owner might want to suppress the warning on example1.com.  Chrome plans to use Digital Asset Links to allow site owners to allowlist co-owned sites for lookalike warnings, and it will use the a new relationship type called `lookalike_urls/allowlist` for this purpose.

well-known/details.md, after:

# Asset Links Specification

## Overview

Asset Links is a protocol to securely capture statements made by digital assets
such as web sites or mobile apps about their relationship with other digital
assets.  Statements can reliably be attributed to the owners of the source
assets.

## Statement Model

A digital **asset** is an identifiable and addressable online entity that
typically provides some service or content.  Examples of assets are websites,
mobile apps, and social media pages.

**Ownership** of an asset is defined by being able to control it and speak for
it.

An asset owner may establish a **relationship** between the asset and another
asset by making a statement about an intended relationship between the two.  An
example of a relationship is permission delegation.  For example, the owner of a
website (the webmaster) may delegate the ability the handle URLs to a particular
mobile app.  Relationships are considered public information.

A particular kind of relationship (like permission delegation) defines a binary
relation on assets.  The relation is not symmetric or transitive, nor is it
antisymmetric or antitransitive.

A **statement** *S(r, a, b)* is an assertion that the relation *r* holds for the
ordered pair of assets *(a, b)*.

For example, taking *r =* "delegates permission to handle the site's URLs", *a
=* nytimes.com website, *b =* New York Times mobile app, *S(r, a, b)* would be
an assertion that "the nytimes.com website delegates its ability to handle URLs
to the New York Times mobile app".

A statement *S(r, a, b)* is considered **reliable** if we have confidence that
the statement is true; the exact criterion depends on the kind of statement,
since some kinds of statements may be true on their face whereas others may
require multiple parties to agree.

## Data Types

### AssetDescriptor

We name an asset using an **AssetDescriptor**, which is a JSON string. For the
initial version of the API, we support only two types of assets, web sites and
Android apps (in the future, others may be added but this does not affect the
model).

**Web site descriptors** are as follows:

```json
// if no port given, default port for scheme is assumed
{ "namespace": "web",
  "site": "http[s]://{fully-qualified domain}{:optional port}"
}
```

We only support describing an entire domain at once.  Note that only fully
qualified domain names are permitted in the URL.

**Android app descriptors** are as follows: 

```json
{ "namespace": "android_app", "package_name": "[Java package name]",
  "sha256_cert_fingerprints": ["[SHA256 fingerprint of signing cert]",
            "[additional allowed cert]", ...]
}
```

The `sha256_cert_fingerprints` field is a list of colon-separated hex strings.
Note that the list is syntactic sugar: since only one certificate is required to
identify an android app, an asset descriptor with two fingerprints is equivalent
to two asset descriptors with one fingerprint each.

Full example of an Android app descriptor:

```json
{ "namespace": "android_app", "package_name": "com.costingtons.app",
  "sha256_cert_fingerprints":
    ["14:6D:E9:83:C5:73:06:50:D8:EE:B9:95:2F:34:FC:64:16:"
     "A0:83:42:E6:1D:BE:A8:8A:04:96:B2:3F:CF:44:E5"]}
```

Notably, we do not refer to any particular version of the app: a phone-based
implementation may match the installed version, while a central service may use
the latest version in the Google Play store.

**iOS App asset descriptors** are as follows:

```json
{ "namespace": "ios_app", "appid": "585027354" }
```

### Relation

A **Relation** describes the nature of a statement, and consists of a kind and a
detail.  The set of kinds is enumerated by the API:

Kind | Description / Reliability determination
--- | ---
`delegate_permission` | The detail field specifies which permission to delegate. A statement involving this relation does not constitute a *requirement* to do the delegation, just a *permission* to do so.  How to determine reliability: A statement of this kind is reliable if it's made by the owner of the asset doing the delegating.
`lookalike_url` | The detail field specifies which sites are allowed to have lookalike URLs as this site. Some browsers may display security warnings for lookalike URLs, and site owners can use this relationship kind to suppress warnings on other sites they own.

We anticipate adding other kinds in the future, but are being deliberately cautious in doing so.

The detail field is a lowercase alphanumeric string with underscores and periods
allowed (matching the regular expression `[a-z0-9_.]+`), but otherwise
unstructured. We define some common values to avoid unnecessary fragmentation of
the API:

Pre-defined kind / detail | Description
--- | ---
`delegate_permission/common.handle_all_urls` | Delegates the ability to handle all URLs that the source asset can handle.
`lookalike_url/allowlist` | Indicates that the listed sites are co-owned and shouldn't show lookalike URL warnings in browsers.

If defining custom detail strings, we encourage the use of Java-style scoping, e.g, `com.google.app.detailstring`.

### Statement

A **Statement** asserts a relation between an ordered pair of assets. The asset
whose owner is making the statement is implicitly the first one (the "source")
in the relation; we may in the future allow the source asset to be specified
explicitly. The statement is a JSON string with the following structure:

```json
{
  "relation": ["{kind}/{detail}", ...],
  "target" : { AssetDescriptor }
}
```

Example statement being made by a website that it delegates the ability to
handle URLs to a particular app:

```json
{
  "relation": ["delegate_permission/common.handle_all_urls"],
  "target" : { "namespace": "android_app",
               "package_name": "com.mydomain.app",
               "sha256_cert_fingerprints": ["[cert hash]"] }
}
```

To allow for easier scaling and central management, we also allow statements
which point to another file containing a list of statements that should be
logically included:

```json
{
  "include": "https://[url of file to include, with FQDN]"
}
```

If the source asset's delivery mechanism is secure (e.g., HTTPS or signed
Android APKs), the include file must be served over SSL.  Include files are only
processed if the HTTP status code is 200; otherwise the content of that include
file is discarded.  Specifically, HTTP 30x redirects will not be followed.

In practice, we expect that direct statements will suffice for small numbers of
assets, but that include-files will be more common when dealing with hundreds of
assets whose relationships are better managed centrally.

### Statement List

A Statement List is a JSON array with any number of statements.

## Determining the Set of Reliable Statements

As defined above, *reliable* statements are those intentionally made by asset
owners.  For each asset type, we identify a location which we believe can only
be controlled by the asset's owner. We treat all statements in that location, as
well as all statements pulled in via the inclusion mechanism, as being made by
the asset owner. The validity period of each statement is generally determined
by the TTL of the underlying data, though a particular implementation may also
impose a lower and upper bound.

### Website:

**Granularity:** A website asset is characterized by (scheme, domain, and port).
All paths and query strings are assumed to be a part of the same website. Both
http and https schemes are supported.

**Statement list location:** For website `<scheme>://<domain>:<port>/`, we
consider the file at `<scheme>://<domain>:<port>/.well-known/assetlinks.json` to
contain a statement list in JSON format as defined above.  The file should be
served with the media type `application/json`.  Any response besides HTTP 200 is
treated as an error, and will result in an empty statements list.

### Android app:

**Granularity:** An Android app is characterized by (package name, signing cert).

**Statement list location:** Android app manifests are protected by the APK
signature whose signing key is by definition controlled by the owner of the app.

In `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
<manifest>
  <application>
    ...
    <meta-data android:name="asset_statements" android:resource="@string/asset_statements" />
  </application>
</manifest>
```

In `res/values/strings.xml`:

```xml
<resources>
    ...
    <string name="asset_statements">
        {JSON array of statements}
    </string>
</resources>
```

### iOS app:

**Granularity:** An iOS app is identified by its App ID.  For example, the
Google Maps app has the App ID 585027354.

**Statement location:** As part of their signed bundle, iOS apps contain an
`Info.plist` file.  Asset Link statements are placed inside this file:

```json
<key>AssetLinkManifest</key>
<string>
  {JSON array of statements}
</string>
```
